---
title: "A Whole New World"
date: "2013-09-27"
categories: 
  - "life"
---

So, we now belong to a new club! I guess you could call it "the families with kids with cancer club", or something like that. Though at this point, it feels a bit like we still have the temporary, paper copy of our membership card while we wait for the shiny plastic one to come in the mail. It feels a bit like that, just because Sam doesn't _look_ like a cancer kid yet.

We found out yesterday that the Childhood Cancer Support (CCS) group was going to watch the jets do a practice flyby over the river in preparation for the Brisbane Festival grand finale, and they invited us to come along. We were expecting to meet up with them there, and figured we'd sit on the grass and watch the planes. With Sam being continually hungry, we made sure we packed a lunch for us in our big red shopping bag.

We soon realised that this was going to be a little more than a family picnic, as we were ushered into one of the pavillion things that, the next night, would be full of VIP's. Well, today we were the VIP's! They had Pizza and drinks, we watched the planes fly up and down the river, and then to finish it off, all the kids got bags of stuff from a bunch of different sponsors. Hats, drink bottles, M&M's, paper, toys, comic books, airplane paper clips, and the list goes on.

After it was all done, and the CCS van left to go home, we did go find a bit of grass, pulled out our sandwiches(Sam was hungry again) and had a little picnic on the grass. It was a really good day.

\[gallery type="rectangular" ids="195,191,193,194,192,196,197"\]
